COST Mission and Policies

MAGIC will contribute to the COST Framework Mission by connecting
European research groups in Number Theory (Mathematics) and Cryptogaphy
(Computer Science) to enable breakthrough scientific developments in the
field of isogeny-based cryptography.  The Action will bring together 
experts in number theory, who have invaluable knowledge on isogenies and
are interested in cryptography as an application, with experts in 
cryptography, who need crucial theoretical input from number theory to
design and analyse efficient and secure isogeny-based cryptosystems.
This exchange is far from one-way traffic: hard problems motivated by
and crystallised in cryptography have long acted as a stimulant for
research in number theory.

This combination is particularly timely, given the current global
interest in post-quantum cryptography, which responds to the need for
private and authenticated communication in an age of quantum supremacy.
Isogeny-based cryptography is the youngest branch of post-quantum
cryptography, with the highest level of mathematical technicity: the
collaboration and intersection of expertise fostered by the Action is
critical to driving this research area forwards.

MAGIC will strengthen European research capacities by creating,
organising, and stimulating a vibrant and dynamic scientific network to
promote an effective exchange of knowledge between researchers in 
Mathematics and Computer Science across Europe (and beyond), and to
effectively disseminate the fruits of this exchange through scientific
publications, online databases, scientific vulgarisation, and Training
Schools for students and early-career researchers.

The collaboration and interaction of the Action is real, and is modelled
on the success story of Elliptic Curve Cryptography, which has acted as
a dynamic meeting-place for Number Theorists and Cryptographers since
its invention in 1985.  Now, as Elliptic Curve Cryptography reaches full
technological maturity, and as the international community faces a need
for post-quantum security that conventional Elliptic Curve Cryptography
simply cannot meet, it is time to re-form, renew, and reinvigorate this
partnership, fully integrating a new generation of researchers.

Indeed, some of the Proposers are drawn from research groups with 
traditional strengths in number theory, and some from groups with a
focus on cryptography and quantum cryptanalysis; but among these groups,
some of the Proposers have key experience in bridging the divide between
pure number theory and applied cryptography -- experience built up 
through world-class research in Elliptic Curve Cryptography over the
past two decades.  The network created by the Action will therefore not
only reinforce and deepen the existing research strengths of its
proposers, but also facilitate a real and effective cross-pollination,
with a lasting impact on European research in Mathematics and Computer
Science and Engineering.

European industrial research and innovation capacities will be further
strengthened by the Action's contribution to European and international
standardization efforts, and to building the competence of industrial
partners in isogeny-based cryptography through specific, dedicated
Training Schools.  This will lead to new products and services in
post-quantum cryptography and information security.

MAGIC is perfectly aligned with the pillars of COST Policy.  The Action
is committed to geographical diversity, with a balanced team of partners
from Eastern, Western, Northern, and Southern Europe, as well as the
United States.  Most of the research groups involved in any one of the
partner countries tend to concentrate their expertise in either Number
Theory or in Cryptography, so the interdisciplinary interaction for
which the Action is designed is necessarily cross-border, and would be
difficult to realise without the support of European Frameworks.  Half
of the participating countries are ITCs.  The development of MAGIC has
been marked by a need to reduce the isolation of specialists in
countries across Europe, especially in the ITCs, by connecting them and
integrating them with larger and thriving research networks in a few of
the partner countries.  In this way, the Action will contribute to the
COST Framework's goal of counterbalancing inequality in access to
knowledge, funding, infrastructure, and resources.

MAGIC is committed to improving gender diversity in European research.
The Main Proposer is female, and 25% of the Proposers are women.  Many
more students and non-permanent staff involved in the Action (but not
named as Proposers) are women, and the Action will provide a valuable
means of increasing their visibility and building their scientific
careers through integration in leading European research networks,
while also offering opportunities for leadership.

